tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/README.md, before:

# Conditional Mark

This is a plugin for adding any mark to specified test cases based on conditions in mark conditions files.

The mark conditions files can be supplied in pytest command line option `--mark-conditions-files`. If no conditions file is specified, use the default conditions file located at `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions.yaml`.


## How it works
This plugin works at the collection stage of pytest. It mainly uses two pytest hook function:
    * `pytest_collection`
    * `pytest_collection_modifyitems`

In `pytest_collection` hook function, it reads the specified conditions file and collect some basic facts that can be used in condition evaluation. The loaded information is stored in pytest object `session.config.cache`.

In `pytest_collection_modifyitems`, it checks each collected test item (test case). For each item, it searches for the longest matches test case name defined in the conditions content. If a match is found, then it will add the marks specified for this case based on conditions for each of the marks.
Different marks in multiple files are allowed. If different marks are found, all of them will be added to the test item(test case). However, when having the duplicate mark, it will choose the first one.

## How to use `--mark-conditions-files`
`--mark-conditions-files` supports exactly file name such as `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions.yaml` or the pattern of the file name such as `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions*.yaml` which will collect all files under the path `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark` named as `test_mark_conditions*.yaml`.
It can be supplied multiple times to specify multiple condition files.

For example:
```buildoutcfg
./run_tests.sh -n vms-kvm-t0 -d vlab-01 -c ssh/test_ssh_stress.py -f vtestbed.yaml -i ../ansible/veos_vtb -u -l INFO -e "--mark-conditions-files path1/test1.yaml" -e "--mark-conditions-files path2/test2.yaml"
```
or
```buildoutcfg
./run_tests.sh -n vms-kvm-t0 -d vlab-01 -c ssh/test_ssh_stress.py -f vtestbed.yaml -i ../ansible/veos_vtb -u -l INFO -e "--mark-conditions-files path1/{pattern}.yaml"
```



## Format of the conditions file

The conditions file must be a yaml file. First level of key should be test case name. Parametrized test case name is supported.
Second level of should be mark name that can be added for the test case. Any mark name is supported. For example, we can specify marks like `skip` or `xfail`.
Third level supports two type of keys:
* `reason`: Optional string text. It's for specifying reason of adding this mark.
* `strict`: Optional bool. It is only valid for `xfail` mark. For other marks, it will just be ignored.
* `conditions`: Its value can be a string or list of strings. The condition string should can be evaluated using python's `eval()` function. Issue URL is supported in the condition string. The plugin will query the issue website to get state of the issue. Then in the condition string, issue URLs will be replaced with either `True` or `False` based on its state. When getting issue state failed, it will always be considered as active. And the URL will be replaced as `True`. If this field is a list of condition strings, all the condition evaluation result is combined using `AND` logical operation.

Example conditions:
```
folder1/test_file1.py::test_case1:
  skip:
    reason: "skip file1/case1"
    conditions:
      - "release in ['master'] or asic_type=='vs'"
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1234
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1235
folder1/test_file1.py::test_case2[2+4-6]:
  skip:
    reason: "test file1/case2[2+4-6] skip"
folder1/test_file1.py:
  fallback_mark:
    reason: "For rest of the test cases in folder1/test_file1.py, add this fallback_mark unconditionally"
folder2/test_file2.py::TestMarkers::test_case1:
  xfail:
    reason: "test file2/case1 xfail"
    conditions:
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1235 and topo_name == 't1-lag'
      -              # Empty condition will be ignored. Equivalent to True.
folder2/test_file2.py::TestMarkers::test_case2:
  xfail:
    reason: "test file2/case2 strict xfail"
    strict:
    conditions:      # Empty conditions will be evaluated to True. It means no condition.
folder2/test_file2.py::TestMarkers::test_case3:
  any_mark_is_supported:
    reason: "Example for adding any mark to tests"
    conditions: "build_number == 36262"
folder3:
  skip:
    reason: "Skip all the test scripts under subfolder 'folder3'"
```

## Longest match rule

This plugin process each expanded (for parametrized test cases) test cases one by one. For each test case, the marks specified in the longest match entry in the conditions file will take precedence.

Then we can easily apply a set of marks for specific test case in a script file and another set of marks for rest of the test cases in the same script file.

Assume we have conditions like below:
```
feature_a/test_file_1.py:
  skip:
    reason: "all testcases in test_file_1.py should be skipped for 201911 image"
    conditions:
      - "release in ['201911']"
feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3:
  xfail:
    reason: "testcase_i are suppose to fail because an issue"
    conditions:
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1234
```

And assume we have below test script:

feature_a/test_file_1.py:
```
def testcase_1

def testcase_2

def testcase_3
```
In this example, `testcase_1` and `testcase_2` will have nodeid like `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_1` and `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_2`. They will match entry `feature_a/test_file_1.py`. So, the `skip` mark will be added to `testcase_1` and `testcase_2` when `release in ['201911']`.
For `testcase_3`, its nodeid will be `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3`. Then it will only match `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3`. The `xfail` mark will be added to `testcase_3` when the Github issue is still open. Entry `feature_a/test_file_1.py` also matches its nodeid. But, because it is not the longest match, it will simply be ignored.

In a summary, under such scenario, the `skip` mark will be conditionally added to `testcase_1` and `testcase_2`. The `xfail` mark will be conditionally added to `testcase_3`.

If a test case is parameterized, we can even specify different mark for different parameter value combinations for the same test case.

## Example variables can be used in condition string:

Example variables can be used in condition string:
```
    {
      "commit_id": "db529af20",
      "build_date": "Mon Sep 13 17:41:03 UTC 2021",
      "sonic_utilities": 1.2,
      "kernel_version": "4.19.0",
      "debian_version": "10.10",
      "built_by": "AzDevOps@sonic-build-workers-000OU4",
      "libswsscommon": "1.0.0",
      "build_version": "master.36262-db529af20",
      "branch": "master",
      "release": "master",
      "topo_type": "t0",
      "topo_name": "t0",
      "platform": "x86_64-kvm_x86_64-r0",
      "hwsku": "Force10-S6000",
      "build_number": 36262,
      "asic_type": "vs",
      "num_asic": 1,
      "is_multi_asic": False,
      "feature_status": {
        "lldp": "enabled",
        "pmon": "enabled",
        "sflow": "disabled",
        "database": "always_enabled",
        "radv": "enabled",
        "macsec": "disabled",
        "telemetry": "enabled",
        "snmp": "enabled",
        "mux": "always_disabled",
        "bgp": "enabled",
        "dhcp_relay": "enabled",
        "mgmt-framework": "enabled",
        "nat": "disabled",
        "teamd": "enabled",
        "gbsyncd": "enabled",
        "syncd": "enabled",
        "swss": "enabled"
      },
      "asic_gen": "td2",
      "is_supervisor": False
    }
```

## New pytest options
A new pytest command line option is added for specifying location of the conditions file. If the option is not supplied, default conditions file located at `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions.yaml` will be used.
```
    parser.addoption(
        '--mark-conditions-files',
        action='append',
        dest='mark_conditions_files',
        default=[],
        help="Location of your own mark conditions file. If it is not specified, the default file will be used.")

    parser.addoption(
        '--ignore-conditional-mark',
        action='store_true',
        dest='ignore_conditional_mark',
        default=False,
        help="Ignore the conditional mark plugin. No conditional mark will be added.")
```

## Possible extensions
The plugin is open for extension in couple of areas:
* Collect more facts. Then more variables can be used in condition string for evaluation.
* Add more arguments for marks, not just the current `reason` argument.

Commit message:

[202405][PR: 14395][PR: 14515] Cherry pick new matching rule of conditional marks to 202405.  (#15047)
Cherry pick #14395 #14515 to 202405

tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/README.md, after:

# Conditional Mark

This is a plugin for adding any mark to specified test cases based on conditions in mark conditions files.

The mark conditions files can be supplied in pytest command line option `--mark-conditions-files`. If no conditions file is specified, use the default conditions file located at `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions.yaml`.


## How it works
This plugin works at the collection stage of pytest. It mainly uses two pytest hook function:
    * `pytest_collection`
    * `pytest_collection_modifyitems`

In `pytest_collection` hook function, it reads the specified conditions file and collect some basic facts that can be used in condition evaluation. The loaded information is stored in pytest object `session.config.cache`.

In `pytest_collection_modifyitems`, each collected test item (test case) is examined.
For each item, all potential matching conditions found based on the test case name are identified.
If a match is found and its mark is unique across all matches, the corresponding mark will be added to the test case.
If there are multiple matches, the mark from the longest match is used.
Different marks across multiple files are allowed.


## How to use `--mark-conditions-files`
`--mark-conditions-files` supports exactly file name such as `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions.yaml` or the pattern of the file name such as `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions*.yaml` which will collect all files under the path `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark` named as `test_mark_conditions*.yaml`.
It can be supplied multiple times to specify multiple condition files.

For example:
```buildoutcfg
./run_tests.sh -n vms-kvm-t0 -d vlab-01 -c ssh/test_ssh_stress.py -f vtestbed.yaml -i ../ansible/veos_vtb -u -l INFO -e "--mark-conditions-files path1/test1.yaml" -e "--mark-conditions-files path2/test2.yaml"
```
or
```buildoutcfg
./run_tests.sh -n vms-kvm-t0 -d vlab-01 -c ssh/test_ssh_stress.py -f vtestbed.yaml -i ../ansible/veos_vtb -u -l INFO -e "--mark-conditions-files path1/{pattern}.yaml"
```



## Format of the conditions file

The conditions file must be a yaml file. First level of key should be test case name. Parametrized test case name is supported.
Second level of should be mark name that can be added for the test case. Any mark name is supported. For example, we can specify marks like `skip` or `xfail`.
Third level supports two type of keys:
* `reason`: Optional string text. It's for specifying reason of adding this mark.
* `strict`: Optional bool. It is only valid for `xfail` mark. For other marks, it will just be ignored.
* `conditions`: Its value can be a string or list of strings. The condition string should can be evaluated using python's `eval()` function. Issue URL is supported in the condition string. The plugin will query the issue website to get state of the issue. Then in the condition string, issue URLs will be replaced with either `True` or `False` based on its state. When getting issue state failed, it will always be considered as active. And the URL will be replaced as `True`. If this field is a list of condition strings, all the condition evaluation result is combined using `AND` logical operation.

Example conditions:
```
folder1/test_file1.py::test_case1:
  skip:
    reason: "skip file1/case1"
    conditions:
      - "release in ['master'] or asic_type=='vs'"
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1234
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1235
folder1/test_file1.py::test_case2[2+4-6]:
  skip:
    reason: "test file1/case2[2+4-6] skip"
folder1/test_file1.py:
  fallback_mark:
    reason: "For rest of the test cases in folder1/test_file1.py, add this fallback_mark unconditionally"
folder2/test_file2.py::TestMarkers::test_case1:
  xfail:
    reason: "test file2/case1 xfail"
    conditions:
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1235 and topo_name == 't1-lag'
      -              # Empty condition will be ignored. Equivalent to True.
folder2/test_file2.py::TestMarkers::test_case2:
  xfail:
    reason: "test file2/case2 strict xfail"
    strict:
    conditions:      # Empty conditions will be evaluated to True. It means no condition.
folder2/test_file2.py::TestMarkers::test_case3:
  any_mark_is_supported:
    reason: "Example for adding any mark to tests"
    conditions: "build_number == 36262"
folder3:
  skip:
    reason: "Skip all the test scripts under subfolder 'folder3'"
```

## Match rule

This plugin process each expanded (for parametrized test cases) test cases one by one.
For each test case, it will get all potential matches that match the pattern of test case name.
And then, for each match, if the mark in it is unique across all matches, we will add this mark to test case based on conditions.
Otherwise, we will use the mark which belongs to the longest match.

Then we can easily apply a set of marks for specific test case in a script file and another set of marks for rest of the test cases in the same script file.

Assume we have conditions like below:
```
feature_a/test_file_1.py:
  skip:
    reason: "all testcases in test_file_1.py should be skipped for 201911 image"
    conditions:
      - "release in ['201911']"
feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3:
  skip:
    reason: "testcase_3 should be skipped for 202311 image"
    conditions:
      - "release in ['202311']"
  xfail:
    reason: "testcase_3 are suppose to fail because an issue"
    conditions:
      - https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/issues/1234
```

And assume we have below test script:

feature_a/test_file_1.py:
```
def testcase_1

def testcase_2

def testcase_3
```
In this example, `testcase_1` and `testcase_2` will have nodeid like `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_1` and `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_2`.
They will match entry `feature_a/test_file_1.py`. So, the `skip` mark will be added to `testcase_1` and `testcase_2` when `release in ['201911']`.

For `testcase_3`, its nodeid will be `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3`. It will match both `feature_a/test_file_1.py` and `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3`.
For mark `xfail`, it is the only mark in all matches, so it will be added to `testcase_3` when the Github issue is still open.
And for mark `skip`, it exists in multiple matches. We will use the longest match of this match, which is under the entry `feature_a/test_file_1.py::testcase_3`.

If a test case is parameterized, we can even specify different mark for different parameter value combinations for the same test case.

## Example variables can be used in condition string:

Example variables can be used in condition string:
```
    {
      "commit_id": "db529af20",
      "build_date": "Mon Sep 13 17:41:03 UTC 2021",
      "sonic_utilities": 1.2,
      "kernel_version": "4.19.0",
      "debian_version": "10.10",
      "built_by": "AzDevOps@sonic-build-workers-000OU4",
      "libswsscommon": "1.0.0",
      "build_version": "master.36262-db529af20",
      "branch": "master",
      "release": "master",
      "topo_type": "t0",
      "topo_name": "t0",
      "platform": "x86_64-kvm_x86_64-r0",
      "hwsku": "Force10-S6000",
      "build_number": 36262,
      "asic_type": "vs",
      "num_asic": 1,
      "is_multi_asic": False,
      "feature_status": {
        "lldp": "enabled",
        "pmon": "enabled",
        "sflow": "disabled",
        "database": "always_enabled",
        "radv": "enabled",
        "macsec": "disabled",
        "telemetry": "enabled",
        "snmp": "enabled",
        "mux": "always_disabled",
        "bgp": "enabled",
        "dhcp_relay": "enabled",
        "mgmt-framework": "enabled",
        "nat": "disabled",
        "teamd": "enabled",
        "gbsyncd": "enabled",
        "syncd": "enabled",
        "swss": "enabled"
      },
      "asic_gen": "td2",
      "is_supervisor": False
    }
```

## New pytest options
A new pytest command line option is added for specifying location of the conditions file. If the option is not supplied, default conditions file located at `tests/common/plugins/conditional_mark/test_mark_conditions.yaml` will be used.
```
    parser.addoption(
        '--mark-conditions-files',
        action='append',
        dest='mark_conditions_files',
        default=[],
        help="Location of your own mark conditions file. If it is not specified, the default file will be used.")

    parser.addoption(
        '--ignore-conditional-mark',
        action='store_true',
        dest='ignore_conditional_mark',
        default=False,
        help="Ignore the conditional mark plugin. No conditional mark will be added.")
```

## Possible extensions
The plugin is open for extension in couple of areas:
* Collect more facts. Then more variables can be used in condition string for evaluation.
* Add more arguments for marks, not just the current `reason` argument.
