docs/api_wiki/ansible_methods/shell_cmds.md, before:

# shell_cmds

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Arguments](#arguments)
- [Expected Output](#expected-output)

## Overview
Allows you to run mutliple commands on a remote host.

## Examples
```
def test_fun(duthosts, rand_one_dut_hostname):
    duthost = duthosts[rand_one_dut_hostname]

    duthost.shell_cmds(cmds=["ls /home", "pwd", "touch /home/test_file.txt", "ls /home"])
```

## Arguments
- `cmds` - List of commands to be run on the remote host
    - Required: `True`
    - Type: `List`
        Element-Type: `String`
- `continue_on_fail` - Whether the remote host should continue to run commands after a failed command
    - Reguired: `False`
    - Type: `Boolean`
    - Default: `True`

## Expected Output
A dictionary with results from commands run. The dictionary hierarchy is described below, with each indentation describing a sub-dictionary:

- `end` - Datetime for when the commands finished running
- `cmds` - the list of commands that were run
- `start` - Datetime for when the commands started running
- `delta` - difference between `start` and `end`
- `results` - List of dictionaries, each corresponding to the results for one of the commands run
    - `stderr_lines` - What was printed to stderr (split by line) during execution of command
    - `stderr` - What was printed to stderr (as one string) during execution of command
    - `stdout_lines` - What was printed to stdout (split by line) during execution of command
    - `stdout` - What was printed to stdout (as one string) during execution of command
    - `cmd` - command that was run
    - `rc` - return code

Commit message:

Add param timeout to ansible library shell_cmds (#8931)
What is the motivation for this PR?
1. Add a parameter timeout to ansible library shell_cmds. The default value is 0 which means no limitation.
2. Set the timeout of some commands to 30s to avoid costing too much time, also updated the command to adapt the timeout wrapper.

How did you verify/test it?
1. Verified by run test_pretest and test_memory_exhaustion on physical testbeds.
2. Verified by PR test.

Signed-off-by: Zhijian Li <zhijianli@microsoft.com>

docs/api_wiki/ansible_methods/shell_cmds.md, after:

# shell_cmds

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Arguments](#arguments)
- [Expected Output](#expected-output)

## Overview
Allows you to run mutliple commands on a remote host.

## Examples
```
def test_fun(duthosts, rand_one_dut_hostname):
    duthost = duthosts[rand_one_dut_hostname]

    duthost.shell_cmds(cmds=["ls /home", "pwd", "touch /home/test_file.txt", "ls /home"])
```

## Arguments
- `cmds` - List of commands to be run on the remote host
    - Required: `True`
    - Type: `List`
        Element-Type: `String`
- `continue_on_fail` - Whether the remote host should continue to run commands after a failed command
    - Reguired: `False`
    - Type: `Boolean`
    - Default: `True`
- `timeout` - Specify time limit (in second) for each command. 0 means no limit.
    - Reguired: `False`
    - Type: `Integer`
    - Default: `0`

## Expected Output
A dictionary with results from commands run. The dictionary hierarchy is described below, with each indentation describing a sub-dictionary:

- `end` - Datetime for when the commands finished running
- `cmds` - the list of commands that user input.
- `start` - Datetime for when the commands started running
- `delta` - difference between `start` and `end`
- `results` - List of dictionaries, each corresponding to the results for one of the commands run
    - `stderr_lines` - What was printed to stderr (split by line) during execution of command
    - `stderr` - What was printed to stderr (as one string) during execution of command
    - `stdout_lines` - What was printed to stdout (split by line) during execution of command
    - `stdout` - What was printed to stdout (as one string) during execution of command
    - `cmd` - command that user input. It's what actaully ran if `timeout == 0`.
    - `cmd_with_timeout` - command wrapped with `timeout`. It's what actually ran if `timeout != 0`.
    - `rc` - return code
    - `timeout` - time limit (in second) for each command. 0 means no limit.
