tests/qos/Pfc_Storm_with_Shared_Headroom_test_plan.md, before:

# PFC Storm with Shared Headroom Test Plan

## Motivation

This test covers the scenrio when a PFC Watchdog is applied on a port which already has it's occupancy crossed into shared headroom.

The test checks if any PFC Frames are sent to the peer link from the DUT port.

**Note:**
+ This test case is only intended for Mellanox Platforms
+ This test case requires an RPC image
+ Shared Headroom has to be enabled on the device.

## Test Plan
+ Verify if the shared headroom is enabled
+ Make sure buffer occupancy crosses into the shared headroom region
   - Achieve buffer congestion by closing the dut tx port using `sai_thrift_port_tx_disable` API: https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/blob/master/tests/saitests/switch.py#L624.
   - Send pkts from the PTF docker which are destined to egress out of the dut tx port.
   - Make sure to send atleast num_pkts_pfs_frame + private_headroom pkts pkts
   - num_pkts_pfs_frame: num of pkts required to be sent in order to trigger a PFC frame from the DUT. More on this here: https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/blob/master/tests/qos/files/mellanox/qos_param_generator.py
   - private_headroom_pkts is specific to mellanox which is in the order of a few pkts.
   - To check if the occupancy has indeed crossed into the shared headroom, use the SAI_INGRESS_PRIORITY_GROUP_STAT_XOFF_ROOM_WATERMARK_BYTES value. This can be fetched using "show priority-group watermark headroom" command.

+ The test triggers a PFC storm on the DUT port
+ PFC Watchdog is triggered
+ The test will stop the PFC Storm and once the PFC WD is restored, the Ingress buffers will be drained to drop the occupancy under Xon
  - Achieve this by re-opening dut tx port using `sai_thrift_port_tx_enable` API.
  - This'll drain the buffers and the occupancy falls below Xon.
+ Check the Tx PFC Counters on the DUT source port which was stormed after the packets are drained. They shouldn't be incremented as the occupancy has fallen below Xon

Commit message:

[pre-commit] Fix style issues in test scripts under `tests/q*` folder
What is the motivation for this PR?
pre-commit is a static analysis tool introduced recently. This tool is
not able to do diff-only check. It checks the whole files touched by PR.
We can't blame PR author for legacy issues. That's why currently the
pre-commit check is only optional.

To ensure that we can make pre-commit a mandatory check for PRs
submitted to this repository, we need to fix all the legacy issues
complained by pre-commit.

How did you do it?
This change fixes the style issues of test scripts under `tests/q*`
folder

How did you verify/test it?
Any platform specific information?
Supported testbed topology if it's a new test case?

tests/qos/Pfc_Storm_with_Shared_Headroom_test_plan.md, after:

# PFC Storm with Shared Headroom Test Plan

# Motivation

This test covers the scenrio when a PFC Watchdog is applied on a port which already has it's occupancy crossed into shared headroom.

The test checks if any PFC Frames are sent to the peer link from the DUT port.

**Note: **
+ This test case is only intended for Mellanox Platforms
+ This test case requires an RPC image
+ Shared Headroom has to be enabled on the device.

# Test Plan
+ Verify if the shared headroom is enabled
+ Make sure buffer occupancy crosses into the shared headroom region
# L624.
- Achieve buffer congestion by closing the dut tx port using `sai_thrift_port_tx_disable` API: https: // github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/blob/master/tests/saitests/switch.py
- Send pkts from the PTF docker which are destined to egress out of the dut tx port.
- Make sure to send atleast num_pkts_pfs_frame + private_headroom pkts pkts
- num_pkts_pfs_frame: num of pkts required to be sent in order to trigger a PFC frame from the DUT. More on this here: https: // github.com/sonic-net/sonic-mgmt/blob/master/tests/qos/files/mellanox/qos_param_generator.py
- private_headroom_pkts is specific to mellanox which is in the order of a few pkts.
- To check if the occupancy has indeed crossed into the shared headroom, use the SAI_INGRESS_PRIORITY_GROUP_STAT_XOFF_ROOM_WATERMARK_BYTES value. This can be fetched using "show priority-group watermark headroom" command.

+ The test triggers a PFC storm on the DUT port
+ PFC Watchdog is triggered
+ The test will stop the PFC Storm and once the PFC WD is restored, the Ingress buffers will be drained to drop the occupancy under Xon
- Achieve this by re-opening dut tx port using `sai_thrift_port_tx_enable` API.
- This'll drain the buffers and the occupancy falls below Xon.
+ Check the Tx PFC Counters on the DUT source port which was stormed after the packets are drained. They shouldn't be incremented as the occupancy has fallen below Xon
